Let's talk about templates.
So specifically, we're going to talk about
the HTML portion, and
then more so the binding and
we've seen this in
the Hello Angular piece,
but just to refresh our memory.
We have a template, we have a class,
our template is declarative in nature,
it's HTML.
Our class is imperative in nature,
that it's designed with imperative logic.
And we need to be able communicate between
the two, so we have string interpolation.
Which is your double curly braces.
And all that's doing is saying
here's the value in in the template,
it just renders it as a string and
that's as far as it goes.
So this is why I've indicated
this with a dotted line.
Now if I want to pass a complex
value in to a template so
that it can be passed on
to a child template or
it needs to modify something then
I will use property binding.
But if something happens in
the template and I wanna capture that,
then I use event binding.
And if I need to put them together,
then I use property and
event binding in the same place.
So what I want to do here just real quick
that we just to help kind of streamline
some of this when you think about this is.
If you have an object,
any want to access a dynamic
variable and you don't know what that is,
how do you dynamically access
a property on an object?
Well, you use array notation.
And let me see here I
think I can do this cool.
So if I have an object and
I want to access
a property, then I can do it like this.
And so if property equaled name,
it would return the name,
the value of the name
property on that object.
Now if I want to execute something,
so let's say I have a function and
I want to call it it's called hello
world and I wanna execute it.
How do I do that?
Well, at this point, it's just a function
but to execute it, I add in parentheses.
So, this is how I think
of property binding and
event binding is using array notation.
I can bind to a property using event or
like these parentheses for
functions, I can bind to an event.
So just a little kind of a mental thing
somebody said once that kind of resonated,
and I think it's a pretty good I
think it's consistent with how we
actually program and other places.
So property binding, so it's data
from the component to an element and
we use brackets array notation.
And what's cool is you can actually
bind to attributes, classes and styles.
So, you could do, for instance,
color, any kind of a property
we've done it where if you have like
a text field and you start typing it in.
You can bind to the color
of that text field and
change it on the fly with,
well, here we go style.color.
And if we put this into a,
like a text field, as we change this,
it would change the color of the text,
we may get into that.
So event binding flows from data
from the element to the component,
and we use parentheses.
And the one thing I wanna
talk about is the event
handler receives the event and
it is $event parameter.
That's just kind of
the convention that Angular uses.
And so you kind of need to have that.
And if you're like, well,
I need to send out two things inside
of an event handler I've ran into
problems with that it didn't work.
What I had to do is combine them into
a single object to then be
communicated via $event.
So this is what this looks like here,
click, and we're able to do that.
Two way data binding it's just the
conjunction of event and property binding.
Sometimes it's referred to
as a banana in a box and
typically you'll use it
with the entry model.
There is a way for you to actually create
two way data binding on a component but
I rarely ever use that.
It's mainly just used with ngModel.
All right, so, real quick just
review we have string interpolation,
event binding, property binding and
then two way data binding.
And now let's talk about
the structural directives.
And so we have binding, but
we also have the ability to modify or
manipulate the DOM.
And so Using things like ngIf, ngSwitch,
we can use these things to dynamically
indicate we want to use this
part of the DOM where we want to render
this this way or render it this way.
So ngIF is a big one ngFor is
another one that we use frequently.
Every once in a while I use ng Switch and
but
that's fairly rare but that does exist.
So ngIf and ngFor is where you're
going to get your money's worth.
And the reason why we use and
this is I think changed just a bit
is that asterix is syntactic sugar for
what's being rendered
under the hood at compile time
which is a lot more verbose.
So skip don't worry about it real quick,
another two things and
then we'll start coding.
If you want to reference
a piece of your template,
somewhere else inside of the template,
you can use a local template variable.
And so, the canonical form of this is
a hashtag, whatever you wanna call it.
This is very common when
dealing with forms.
And if you need to do it in
a canonical form, where occasionally
the some kind of like server side
rendering will conflict with this.
You can do this using ref-variable which
is more of like an html5 Complaint thing.
And so here, you can see we have
ng-template and we're calling this prompt.
And so this is what I like about
ngIf is that if something is if
current portfolio ID then render
this else render prompt and
we can see that prompt here
is the second ng-template.
And as well this is very very
common this is probably why because
I'm able to reference the underlying
form controller using $formRef.
And then based on the state of
that form like is it valid or
not then I can disable or enable a form.
So this is where we see again property and
event binding.
And last but not least,
occasionally you need to bind
to something that may or may not exist.
And so this one point was called
the Elvis operator because of the little
hair dip to do.
But it is now safely referred to as
the safe navigation operator and
it's just you use the question mark.
This is also built into TypeScript I
think at this point, and
it's a way to guard against null or
undefined properties.